Contents:

* Non-Commerical License


Welcome to Genozip
******************

Genozip is a universal compressor for genomic files - it is optimized
to compress FASTQ, SAM/BAM/CRAM, VCF/BCF, FASTA, GVF, Phylip and
23andMe files, but it can also compress any other file (including non-
genomic files).

It can even compress files that are already compressed with .gz .bz2
.xz (for full list of supported file types see "genozip
--help=input").

The compression ratio one can expect to see depends on the data being
compressed - it is typically about a 1.5-3X ratio when compressing
.bam, 2X-5X for .fastq.gz files (i.e. compressing already-compressed
files), and up to 200X when compressing an uncompressed high-sample-
count .vcf file with only GT data or a Multi-FASTA file with similar
contigs.

The compression is lossless - the decompressed file is 100% identical
to the original file (except when using the "--optimize" option).

While Genozip was designed primarily to allow cost-effective storage
and fast transmission of genomic files, it also includes extensive
options that allow direct use of genozip-compressed files in
analytical pipelines.

The command line options are similar to gzip and samtools/bcftools, so
if you are familiar with these, it works pretty much the same. To get
started, try: "genozip --help".


Citing
******

Lan, D., et al. Bioinformatics, 36, 4091–4092, July 2020,
https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa290


Feature requests and bug reports
********************************

bugs@genozip.com


License
*******

Genozip’s Non-Commerical License allows for free non-commerical use,
subject to certain conditions. For a commercial license, please
contact sales@genozip.com.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-
INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE
DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.


Indices and tables
******************

* Index

* Module Index

* Search Page
